# Telco Customer Churn Prediction
> The purpose of this project is to predict whether or not a telco customer will churn based on historical customer usage and subscription data. The best performing model can accurately identify customer churn up to 81.79%. The result of each model is shown in [Weights & Biases dashboard](https://wandb.ai/titus-chin/telco-customer-churn-prediction/reports/Telco-Customer-Churn-Prediction--VmlldzoxMjE2NzE1).
#### -- Project Status: Completed

## Table of Contents
* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Methods Used](#methods-used)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Project Description](#project-description)
* [Results](#results)
* [Contact](#contact)
* [License](#license)

## Project Structure
    ├── conf
    │   ├── credentials    <- YAML files containing credentials and environment variables
    │   └── parameters     <- YAML files containing parameters for source code
    | 
    ├── data               <- Data for use in this project
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed
    │   ├── processed      <- The final data sets for modeling
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump
    │
    ├── docs               <- Documentation for source code generated by Sphinx
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models as well as model summary
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionary, manuals, and all other explanatory materials
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis reports
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project
    │   ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   └── models         <- Scripts to train models and make predictions
    |
    ├── .gitignore         <- Tell Git which files to ignore
    |
    ├── .pre-commit-config.yaml  <- Configuration file for pre-commit hooks
    |
    ├── LICENSE            <- License for this project
    |
    ├── Makefile           <- Makefile with commands like `make test` or `make docs`
    |
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for this project
    |
    ├── activate.sh        <- Shell script to activate the virtual environment
    |
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment
    |
    └── setup.py           <- Makes project pip installable (pip install -e .)

## Methods Used
- Logistic Regression
- K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN)
- Support Vector Machine (SVC)
- Decision Tree
- Random Forest

## Technologies
- Python - version 3.8.10
    - Pandas - version 1.3.4
    - Scikit-learn - version 1.0.1
- GNU Make - version 4.2.1
- Weights & Biases

## Project Description
Customer churn is used to describe the loss of customers by a company. Ideally, employers would like to see 0% churn rate in their companies but it's impossible due to tons of competitors out there. To compensate the revenue loss because of customer churn, marketing teams will need to try their best to attract new customers. However, research shows that it often costs more to gain new customers than retaining existing customers. Therefore, customer churn prediction becomes very important to every company. After the customers at risk of churning have been identified, the next step is to strategize the marketing actions necessary to increase the chances of the churn-probable customers remaining a customer. In terms of feasibility, since many companies now use a subscription-based business model for their businesses, they could easily use historical customer usage or subscription data to predict customer churn. The purpose of this project is to predict whether or not a telco customer will churn based on historical customer usage and subscription data.

The dataset can be obtained from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/blastchar/telco-customer-churn). The telco customer churn data contains information about a telco company that provided home phone and internet services to 7043 customers. It indicates which customers have left, stayed, or signed up for their services. Some customer account info and demographic info also included in the dataset. Data cleaning and feature selection are performed before feeding the data into machine learning models. Data dictionary can be found [here](references/data_dictionary.md).

There's only 26.5% of customer churn in the dataset, so the dataset is imbalance. The evaluation metric selected for this project is recall. Recall tells us how many percent of the actual customer churn is correctly classified. This evaluation metric is suitable because we don't want to miss any customer that are likely to stop using our services, so we could strategize the marketing actions necessary to retain them. The dataset is splitted into 80% training set and 20% testing set, and 5-fold cross validation is used in hyperparameters tuning. Scikit-learn package is used to create the machine learning models. DummyClassifier is created as a baseline classifier, meaning that the other machine learning models should be performed better than it. 5 machine learning models are created to predict customer churn which are LogisticRegression, KNeighborsClassifier, SVC, DecisionTreeClassifier and RandomForestClassifier. Grid search is used to tune the hyperparameters of each model, and Weights & Biases is used to track the hyperparameters tuning. Model summary can be found [here](models/model_summary.md). The best model is chosen based on the evaluation metrics - recall.

## Results
SVC is the best performing model because it has the highest testing recall - 81.79%, meaning that this model can accurately identify customer churn up to 81.79%. The result of each model is shown in [Weights & Biases dashboard](https://wandb.ai/titus-chin/telco-customer-churn-prediction/reports/Telco-Customer-Churn-Prediction--VmlldzoxMjE2NzE1). By having this model, telco company can strategize the marketing actions to retain these customers. In the end, the revenue loss due to customer churn can be dramatically reduced! Several improvements can be made to further increase the recall score of the model, such as perform features engineering, use ensemble learning, balance the dataset, or even train a neural network.

## Contact
Created by [Titus Chin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/titus-chin-jun-hong/), feel free to contact me!

## License
This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
